RHDEVDOCS-4029 - Fowarding to separate indices (#48666)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-forwarding-separate-indices.adoc

// Module is included in the following assemblies:
//cluster-logging-external
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-forwarding-separate-indices_{context}"]
= Forwarding JSON logs from containers in the same pod to separate indices

> You can forward structured logs from different containers within the same pod to different indices. To use this feature, you must configure the pipeline with multi-container support and annotate the pods. Logs are written to indices with a prefix of `app--`. It is recommended that Elasticsearch be configured with aliases to accommodate this.

Reviewer: the prefix is `app-`

Author: Thank you, corrected.

[IMPORTANT]
====
JSON formatting of logs varies by application. Because creating too many indices impacts performance, limit your use of this feature to creating indices for logs that have incompatible JSON formats. Use queries to separate logs from different namespaces, or applications with compatible JSON formats.
====

.Prerequisites

> * {logging-title-uc}: 5.5

Reviewer 2: ```
* {logging-title-uc} 5.5 and later
```

.Procedure
. Create or edit a YAML file that defines the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR object:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  outputDefaults:
    elasticsearch:
      enableStructuredContainerLogs: true <1>
  pipelines:
  - inputRefs:
    - application
    name: application-logs
    outputRefs:
    - default
    parse: json
----
<1> Enables multi-container outputs.

. Create or edit a YAML file that defines the `Pod` CR object:
+
[source,yaml]
----
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      annotations:
        containerType.logging.openshift.io/heavy: heavy <1>
        containerType.logging.openshift.io/low: low
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: heavy <2>
        image: heavyimage
      - name: low

>         image: lowimage

Reviewer 2: Hi Libby - It looks like this sample needs to be un-indented by four spaces.

----
<1> Format: `containerType.logging.openshift.io/<container-name>: <index>`
<2> Annotation names must match container names

[WARNING]
====
This configuration might significantly increase the number of shards on the cluster.
====

> .Additional Resources

Reviewer 2: ```
[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
```

> link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/[Kubernetes Annotations]

Reviewer 2: * link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/[Kubernetes Annotations]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/[Kubernetes Annotations]
```

// Module is included in the following assemblies:
//cluster-logging-external
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-forwarding-separate-indices_{context}"]
= Forwarding JSON logs from containers in the same pod to separate indices

> 

Reviewer 2: For the abstract to appear in search results, it must be the first paragraph below the title.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> JSON formatting of logs varies by application. Because creating too many indices impacts performance, limit your use of this feature to creating indices for logs that have incompatible JSON formats. Use queries to separate logs from different namespaces, or applications with compatible JSON formats.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSON formatting of logs varies by application. Because creating too many indices impacts performance, limit your use of this feature to create indices for logs with incompatible JSON formats. Use queries to separate logs from different namespaces, or applications with compatible JSON formats.
```
Do you mean "applications with **incompatible** JSON formats?"

Author: No, it is as its intended. If compatible JSON format, then query. If incompatible JSON formats, then indices.

> JSON formatting of logs varies by application. This feature should be used sparingly to create indices to separate logs with incompatible JSON formats, as creating too many indices will impact performance. To separate logs from different namespaces, or applications with compatible JSON formats, use queries.

Author: That was included based on input from @alanconway due to concerns this feature might be mistakenly used in lieu of queries in those use cases & cause performance issues.

====

> You can forward structured logs from different containers within the same pod to different indices. To use this feature, you must configure the pipeline with multi-container support, and annotate the pods. Logs are written to indices with a prefix of `app--`. It is recommended that Elasticsearch be configured with aliases to accommodate this.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can forward structured logs from different containers within the same pod to different indices. To use this feature, you must configure the pipeline with multi-container support and annotate the pods. Logs are written to indices with a prefix of `app--`. It is recommended that Elasticsearch be configured with aliases to accommodate this.  
```

.Prerequisites

* {logging-title-uc}: 5.5

.Procedure
. Create or edit a YAML file that defines the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR object:
+

> [source,YAML]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
```

----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
metadata:
  name: instance
  namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
  outputDefaults:
    elasticsearch:
      enableStructuredContainerLogs: true <1>
  pipelines:
  - inputRefs:
    - application
    name: application-logs
    outputRefs:
    - default <2>
    parse: json
----

> <1> Setting the value `enableStructuredContainerLogs` to `true` enables multi-container outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Enables multi-container outputs.
```

> <2> You can specify alternate outputs or leave the `default` value.

Reviewer 2: As a user reading this, I'm not sure what to do. Is this related to configuring Elasticsearch with aliases? Could you please help me make the choice?

. Create or edit a YAML file that defines the `Pod` CR object:
+

> [source, YAML]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
```

----
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      annotations:
        containerType.logging.openshift.io/heavy: heavy <1>
        containerType.logging.openshift.io/low: low
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: heavy <2>
        image: heavyimage
      - name: low
        image: lowimage
----

> <1> Example annotation, format: `containerType.logging.openshift.io/container-name: index`

Reviewer 3: I don't know the best way to convey this but the collector will write logs to "app-<index>-write".  We generally advise Elasticsearch to be configured such that this is an alias to an indices set up for rollover.  This would mean the logs end up in indices like "app-<index>-00001".  The challenge is if it is not configured this way then it will actually be "app-<index>-write"

> <2> Annotation names must match container names

Reviewer 2: Would it help to use `<replaceable_values>` in this example?

[WARNING]
====

> This has the potential to significantly increase the shard count on the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration might significantly increase the number of shards on the cluster.
```
